---
title: "A Guide to the Crude Dissection of a Body" # Title of your project
date: 2025-08-26T10:20:43-07:00
weight: 2 # Order in which to show this project on the home page
external_link: "" # Optional external link instead of modal
resources:
    - src: Body.png
      params:
          weight: -100 # Optional weighting for a specific image in this project folder
draft: false
---
<title>A Guide to the Crude Dissection of a Body</title>

At first glance, it may seem trivial. You’re not a doctor, nor are you trained in human anatomy, yet you feel certain that you’ll be able to carry out the act. Take it step by step. Move your hands slowly and methodically. There is no need for absolute precision, but striving for it may be a good idea. Check off the list in your mind before you begin. Grab your gloves and lay them out and slide your hands into the formed rubber and pull them taught and inspect them for wrinkles or holes or signs of damage. Go through your tools, your saws and scalpels and forceps, all second hand, all slightly rusted. Make sure your clothes are ones you intend to dispose of, a shirt filled with holes and a pair of jeans with no button or zipper held up by a crudely made belt made of rope. There is no need for sanitation. There is no life to be saved, only knowledge to be gained. Your check list is complete; there is nothing more to prepare. Take a breath. Look at the eyes. Understand what you are about to do and exploit it.

Start at the bottom and work your way up. Before cutting, look at the feet. Look at the tough skin. Feel it. The gloves dull your sense of touch. Inspect the toenails, the underside covered in dirt and grime, the top side rough and dry. Take everything in, you are here to learn. Look at the veins. Look at how they bulge under the pale skin. It’s time to cut. Look over to your tray, made from a rusty oven pan and a tattered rag, and pick up the scalpel. Move it over the heel. Press it deep, as deep as it can go. Pull it upwards, towards the toes. Watch how it opens, how it spreads like wings, how it reveals the flesh underneath, how the tendons stretch thin, and the small muscles relax. You need to keep calm. Take a breath and move forward. Set down the scalpel, now covered in a thick layer of blood and specs of flesh. Grab the small motorized saw, its frayed cord snaked around the leg of the table, and press it to the largest toe. Press the button and hear it whir to life, the sound reverberating around the room. You’re glad you’re wearing the eye goggles you picked up from the dollar store. Blood clouds your vision. It sprays everywhere for a moment, then stops. Wipe the goggles with your sleeve and peer at the bone. It’s white. A brighter white than you thought. Its shine is slowly being overtaken by a soft flow of viscous blood that’s pooling at the top of the wound. This is precious knowledge. As sick as you feel, you are excited to be learning, to be absorbing every aspect of the body. Not many get to experience that.

Move up to the leg. The one closest to you. Run your hand over the shin, over the thigh. Feel the hair, feel the bone, sense the fat and muscle within. It is important to know the feeling of these things. Bend the leg, see how it deforms, how the tendons stretch and the thigh jiggles and the remnants of the foot point downward. Lay it back down, like it was before. Look over to the tray and pick up the large hand saw. Run your fingers over the knee. Sense where it would be easiest to cut. Place the saw on the flesh and begin. Press hard. Go back and forth. Hear the squelching of flesh and the sawing of bone, hear the kneecap break in two and the serrated blade hit the table as you complete the action. Memorize that feeling. Move the bottom of the leg downward and use the scalpel to cut any remaining connections. The bone looks different to the one from the toe. It’s worn and grey. Less smooth, less perfect. The only similarities are the slight whiteness and the flowing blood. Look at the yellow lumps that form on the still-attached part of the leg. It’s fat. Press your finger up to it, feel the sensation of the stored energy. It’s squishy and wet and malleable. Close your eyes and breathe. Take a mental picture of the scene. Remember it.

Move up to the genitals. Make a note of them, but do not cut into them. It’s not that they are unimportant, or that they are sacred, but it’s that you’re not getting the full picture. This is your only opportunity, so it’s best not to skew your knowledge without having the other half present. Take a close look at it, remember it, and move on.

Move up to the abdomen. You may want to jump to cutting right away, as you are growing impatient, but understanding the surface is an important part of the process. Press your blood-soaked gloves into it. Feel the organs move and the fat compress. Pinch the skin and look into the bellybutton. Take your time in observing. When you are ready, grab the scalpel once again, and press it into the left side of the abdomen. Be careful when applying pressure, as you wouldn’t want to damage what’s inside. There is precious knowledge to be gained. Drag the blade to the other side. Look at the flap open and watch the lower intestine droop out. Look away for a moment and take a breath. Look back and set down the scalpel and move your hands over to the slit and shove them in and open it wide. Use one of your hands to keep the wound agape and use the other to grab a pen light, also from the dollar store. The intestines are warped and winding and blood-soaked. Reach inside. Hold your breath. Feel the intestines, squishy and hollow and muscular. Move your hand upward and find the pancreas. It may be hard, as most of the organs feel similar. Once you find it, pull towards the opening. Feel the tug of all the things connected to it. Reach in and cut the connections if you are able. Once it is out of the abdomen, inspect it. It is covered in blood and is a light, fleshy color. Set it aside and repeat the process with the other organs in the vicinity. Remove the stomach, the kidneys, the spleen, and the liver. Feel them each. Remember their weight and size and texture. Set them aside on the other trays you prepared. Make sure to leave the intestines, the heart, and the lungs intact. Feel the outside of the abdomen again, just above the intestines. It feels hollow. Remember that.

Move up to the chest. The feeling of the area is not important, as once again you are missing information. Look over to your tools and take the small vibrating saw once again and press it to the left side of the chest. Press as hard as you can and click the button. Viscera will fly and specs of the ribcage will hit your goggles and arms and chest. Remember the feeling of each particle hitting you. Once a sizable hole has been made with the saw, set it on the tray and move your hands to the hole and pull it open, just like the abdomen. If done correctly, you will be able to see the heart. It no longer beats, but that does not mean that it no longer holds significance. Set down the saw on the tray and pick up the scalpel once again. Sever the connections to the heart, and while doing so, understand the importance of this moment. You may shed tears, you may feel your own still-beating heart sink, but you must persist. Once you are able to freely move the heart, take it out of the body. Inspect it like you did with the other organs but pay careful attention to the sensation of it in your hands. Apart from the brain, this may be the most important part of the procedure. It is imperative that you remember every single sensation. Remember how it feels to rotate it and apply pressure to it. Remember the chambers and the remnants of blood within them. Remember what it used to do, and what it does now. Categorize these feelings and file them away into the recesses of your brain. Forgetting is not an option. Set the heart aside with the other organs.

Move to the lungs. They are large, and very hard to remove without desecrating the skin and bone above them, so you must use the hole you made to the heart to feel as much of them as possible. Compress them, see how they drain of air. Feel the tenderness of the flesh. Feel how it warps around your fingers, thin yet strong. Close your eyes and shape them in your mind. Take that image and remember it.
Move up to the neck. Take the scalpel and cut it wherever you deem fit. Watch the blood flow, slowing now as it has drained in the other places you’ve tampered with. Spread open the slit, just as you did with the abdomen and the chest, feeling your way inside the trachea. The tube may feel odd in this moment, ribbed and squishy. Remember to breathe. Understand how it supplied air and pushed out carbon dioxide, an extension of the lungs. Take your fingers out of the hole, your gloves now completely soaked with blood, no spot left uncovered. Rub your index finger and thumb together. Remember that feeling. Archive it with the rest.

Move up to the face. Look at the eyes again. Open the mouth, look at the teeth. Some are crooked, some are pristine, some are missing. Take in every single detail. Observe every pour, every freckle, every blemish. Make note of the color of the skin, the color of the lips, the color of the eyes. Take a thumb and push it underneath the eye closest to you. Watch it release from the socket, deforming unnaturally. Once fully removed, take the scalpel and sever the connection. Inspect the eye in your hand, small and fragile. Wipe away the blood on the cornea, transferred there by your gloves. Peer inside. Use the pen light to illuminate the veins and the flesh and the retina and the nerves. Set it aside with the other organs. It is time for the most important part.

Move up to the scalp. It is important to breathe and take your time in this moment. Any damage may influence your memory. Take the small vibrating saw and press it to the forehead. Apply pressure and hit the button. You must push hard, as the skull is thick and your tools are starting to wither from use. Rotate the saw around the head. Make sure not to get it tangled in any hair that is present. Once completed, the top should come off smoothly and with little resistance. Gaze upon the wrinkled pink brain, covered in a layer of bright paper-thin flesh. The protective membrane can easily be removed with your hands. Carefully shove your thumbs into opposite sides of the open skull and slide them downwards. The brain is malleable, so it will morph around your fingers. Remember the feeling of the warping flesh, and how the brain itself moves upward as you push downward. Once fully removed, just like the other organs, sever the connections. Feel the weight of the brain in your hands. Press your fingers into the flesh and see them disappear into the snaking conglomeration of wrinkles. This is the most important part, so it is critical to capture every single sensation. Set the brain beside the head, take the scalpel, and slice it in half. Straight down the middle. The inside is not too dissimilar to the outside, but it is still important to absorb every single detail. The different sections, the hanging disconnected nerves and arteries and muscles on the bottom, the blood that pools in certain areas, clotted and sticky. It is all important. Remember it all.

You are finished with the procedure. You may set down the scalpel and take off your gloves. Take one last look at your work, messy as it may be. Observe the pooled blood, the specs of flesh and bone, the empty husk that you have left on the cold table splayed out in a way that makes your stomach churn. This was your only chance, and you utilized it to its fullest. You’ll remember every single part. The sensations and the images and the organs and the flesh and the bone and the blood all archived in your mind forever. It was the hardest thing you’ll ever do, but you will be better now. You will understand. You will remember. You will live.


Photo by cottonbro studio: https://www.pexels.com/photo/stainless-medical-tools-used-in-dentistry-7585025/