---
title: "A Memory of a Field" # Title of your project
date: 2025-08-26T10:12:50-07:00
weight: 3 # Order in which to show this project on the home page
external_link: "" # Optional external link instead of modal
resources:
    - src: Field.png
      params:
          weight: -100 # Optional weighting for a specific image in this project folder
draft: false
---
<title>A Memory of a Field</title>

I remember being in a field, surrounded by tall dry grass, staring at that house. My mom stood a few feet behind me, both of us standing silently, observing the landscape around us. We were on our way to a backpacking trail, one that my mom had visited a few times before, but we had stopped briefly on our way there to look at the small lake that broke up the field, and more specifically for her, to take a break from driving. My mom suddenly broke the silence that had been lingering for a while, saying something about the lake or the mountains or the field, but not the house. I answered absentmindedly, saying something small in acknowledgement. I couldn’t shift my focus from the house. It was decrepit, but not completely. Its shingles were falling off and its wood was rotting, but it wasn’t caving in, and it wasn’t blown over. It felt like someone was maintaining it. That scared me, but I’m not sure why. My mom finally addressed the house, telling me that it looked like a “murder cabin”. I agreed, it really did look like a house straight out of a horror movie, but that also didn’t quite do it justice. The house had something more haunting about it, something that awoke a deep fear within me, yet it also brought a heavy sense of melancholy. 

I couldn’t quite understand what caused those feelings, however. Even to this day, I only have theories for what caused that initial sense of dread. I took my eyes off the house for a brief moment to scan the environment around us. The mountains that surrounded us were ever distant, yet completely encasing, it felt like it would be impossible to escape them if the road that had led us there didn’t exist. The lake in front of us looked curiously man-made. Did the person who built that house make it? Its water reflected the sky perfectly, creating a visual illusion that made it feel immeasurably deep. The grass that made up the field was bright yellow and about waist high. It was the middle of summer, so that made sense, but the grass only served to highlight the dark brown house that disrupted its seemingly infinite expansion. The only other thing to look at was the sky, blue and cloudless, only broken up by the snowy peaks of the mountains. It felt like the world was trying to call our attention to the house, as it was the only thing that didn’t seem so… endless. 

My mom, excited for the trip ahead of us, wasn’t phased by the house. I didn’t blame her, it was easy to get caught up in the beauty of the landscape that surrounded us, but for some reason my mind wouldn’t let me dismiss the fear that had overtaken me. My mom seemingly noticed my fixation, so she walked in front of me and stared at the house for a moment too. “Do you wanna check it out?” she asked. I remember feeling my heart sink lower than it ever had before in that moment. The thought of getting any closer to that house was something that made the horror I had been experiencing expand tenfold. “Not really”, I told her, “Isn’t that kinda dangerous?” She glanced at me, and without a hint of fear, she said, “Oh come on! It’s clearly abandoned, plus we’re not going to go inside or anything.” She started walking to the left of the lake, glancing at me to make sure I was following her. I looked back at our car, then looked at the house once again. I didn’t want my mom to go alone. I was too scared of something happening to her. So I ran to catch up with her, as she was already walking along the shore of the lake towards the house. I had never felt more afraid.

After a short walk around the lake, we had made it to the hill that the house sat on. My mom looked over at me and finally noticed that I wasn’t remotely comfortable with the situation that she had put us in. She gave me a quick side-hug and said, “Look! We’re fine, there’s obviously nobody in there, and there obviously hasn’t been anyone for a long time.” She wasn’t wrong, it seemed. The house looked more abandoned than I had previously thought now that we were closer. The porch was full of holes and the front door had fallen inward, the ground floor windows were all shattered and there was a chair sitting under the awning of the house that was nothing but rusted springs and rotting wood. I calmed down slightly, knowing that this was probably just a long abandoned house and the owners of the property weren’t even here. My mom and I made our way up the hill, wading through the thick grass that swept at our legs, moving closer and closer to the house. 

As we reached the front porch, I was able to see more of the inside of the house through the shattered windows on the ground floor. It looked similar to the outside, rotting and disused with no sign that anyone had been there in a long time. The only thing that seemed out of the ordinary was an object sitting on what I assumed to be the dining table. I couldn’t make out what it was, but it was rectangular and shiny. That made my sense of dread even worse. “What could the object be? Why does it look so new?” I thought to myself. My mom suddenly broke the silence that had persisted between us for a while. “Oh yeah, total murder cabin” she said jokingly. She looked over at me, noticing that I was still uncomfortable, and gave me another hug. “Hey, its ok! It’s just an old house. Think of it like a little piece of Montana history!” she said. Hearing her say that calmed me down a little. It was kind of cool to see such an old house up close. “Did you see the thing on the table in there? What is it?” I asked. I pointed to the window where I saw it and my mom scanned the inside. “Oh, I do see it! What could that even be?” she responded. I was hoping she would be able to figure out what it was when she spotted it, but it seemed like she didn’t have any guesses either. My mom unexpectedly started walking up to the front door of the house, seemingly trying to get a better look at the object. “Mom, what are you doing?” I yelled. In response, she waved her hand at me, implying for me to come to her. My heart dropped. The terror that seemed to be subsiding came back to me within an instant. I didn’t want to approach the house, but my mom kept waving me over, so I did. I walked up next to her, making sure to avoid the holes in the porch, and looked in through the window.

It was a photograph. It looked brand new, like it had been printed out recently. We still couldn’t get a good look at its contents through the window, however. “What is that doing here?” I asked. “I don’t know. It looks so new too.” my mom responded. The dread that I had felt was overtaking me. I felt like crying. I wanted to leave and go back to the car, but my mom seemed determined to try and see what was on the photograph. I glanced behind me to check on the car and hopefully relieve some of my fear by looking at the landscape. I started crying. There was somebody walking around the lake, seemingly taking the same path we took to get to the house. My eyes searched the area for another car, hoping that it was just another curious person stopping to check out the house like we were. There was no other car. I whipped around in a panic, hoping to tell my mom about the stranger by the lake, but she wasn’t there. I yelled for her, tears streaming down my face, but she didn’t respond. Then, out of the corner of my eye, I spotted movement within the house. I hurriedly looked into the window that my mom and I had been looking at, and I saw her. She was inside the house, looking at the photo. I yelled through the shattered glass, asking her to please come out and that someone was coming. She didn’t listen. She picked up the photograph, turned around, and walked further into the house, beyond the sight of the windows. I crouched down, covering my face with my hands, and began to weep. I didn’t know what to do, and I had never experienced true fear like that.

I tried to compose myself as much as possible. I wiped the tears and snot that had accumulated on my face and stood up. I looked back at the lake to check on the stranger, but there was nobody there. I didn’t hear footsteps near me, nor did I hear the grass being waded through. I looked over at the window again, and my mom still wasn’t there. I knew I had to go inside and find her, but the thought of doing so made me start to cry out of fear again. I mustered up what little courage I had at the moment and opened the remnants of the decayed door and stepped inside.

The hallway that I had entered was barren. The walls were vacant of photos, only occupied by ripped and rotting floral wallpaper, and there were no personal items on the small table that sat next to the entrance. I called out my mom’s name, but my voice didn’t travel far, as the decaying wood that surrounded me absorbed the soundwaves. I slowly made my way into the room where the picture was, the floor creaking loudly every step I made. The photo was still on the dilapidated table, still gleaming due to the sun now shining directly through the destroyed windows. I stooped over the table to get a good look at the contents of the photo. It was the house, back when it was in use. No shattered windows, no rotting wood, just a perfectly normal wooden country house, painted white. I struggled to understand how such a new looking photograph could capture the house in such a state. I looked closer at the picture, trying to look for any signs of doctoring. My eyes scanned every detail of the house, from the porch to the roof, but I couldn’t find anything that would suggest the picture had been altered in any way. I looked at the background, but the snow-capped mountains and dry field of grass were clearly the same as they were in the present. My eyes suddenly stopped on what I thought was just a smudge. It was small, dark, and smeared, like a printing error would be, but it had an unmistakable shape to it. It was a person. A person standing in the distance, right next to the house. A shiver went up my spine and I started to cry out of fear again. I couldn’t wrap my head around what was happening, and I had never felt more afraid.

I decided to take the photograph with me as I searched the rest of the house for my mom. I wasn’t quite sure why I took it with me at that moment. Looking back on it now, I think it was because it was something tangible, so it made things feel more real. I felt like I was acting out a horror movie, but having the photo in my hands assured me that I was, in fact, experiencing reality. I remember walking into the room that my mom had disappeared into, and feeling an overwhelming sense of dread wash over me again. One even more potent than when I saw the person walking around the lake. I didn’t know why I felt it at that moment, especially because the room I had just walked into was fairly unremarkable. There was the same tattered wallpaper that slumped off the walls, and there was a torn-up couch against the wall, but that was it. My mom wasn’t there, there was nobody in the room, but I still felt that dread. I walked back into the hallway from that room and noticed that the kitchen was right next to me. I peered into it briefly, but I didn’t see any signs of my mom, only broken cabinets and a shattered sink basin. I walked slowly through the hallway back to the area where the front door was, testing each step I made so I wouldn’t fall through the rotten floorboards. I made my way up the stairs that were adjacent to the entry way, clinging onto the wooden railing as to not topple through the steps themselves. I reached the second-floor landing and was greeted by a ladder only a few feet away from me. My eyes followed it upward and I realized that it led to the house’s attic. I looked around for any signs of my mom, but there were none. I knew I had to go up the ladder, but the fear that was ripping through me at that moment was almost paralyzing. I remember closing my eyes, taking a deep breath, and thinking of my mom. I made my way up the ladder.

The attic was dusty and filled with old belongings. A portion of the roof had caved in behind where the ladder was, so I was only able to access a small part of the attic. The sun shined through a plate-sized window that surprisingly hadn’t been broken. I peered out the window, noticing that the sun was starting to set. I remember being so scared about the prospect of being in the house while it was dark. I needed to find my mom. I looked around at the piles of papers and pictures and furniture that surrounded me. It was like whoever lived here before forgot that the attic even existed. I crouched down and opened an unlabeled box. It was unsurprisingly filled with even more papers and photos. They seemed fairly normal, old tax documents, postcards from national parks, old letters. The thing that I found odd at that moment was the fact that there wasn’t one photo that contained people in it. No baby photos, no family portraits, not even the postcards had people on them. I remember thinking to check the photo that I had found on the table, as it was the only one that I had seen with a person on it. I held it up and immediately started crying again. The figure that had been next to the house was now in front of it. It was still blurry and pitch black, but it had moved. I thought I had remembered wrong for a moment, but the original image had been seared into my memory due to the immense fear I had experienced when I first looked at it. I needed to find my mom. I needed to leave as soon as possible. I couldn’t be there for much longer without fear overtaking me completely.

I stared at the photo for a little longer, frozen in a mixture of shock and curiosity and dread. I made sure that the figure didn’t move again. I burned the image into my mind so that if it did I wouldn’t doubt myself again. I lowered the photo, still somewhat in shock, and walked over to the window. My fear reached an apex in that moment. Right outside the window, standing in front of the house, was the figure from the photo. I stood there for a moment, refusing to comprehend the situation I was in. I looked back at the photo, and sure enough, the figure now looked like it was staring at the attic window. I didn’t know what to do other than silently weep while closely watching the person. The sun was dipping behind the horizon at this point; it’s light that had illuminated the dry landscape now fading. The person and I just stared at each other, neither of us moving. I couldn’t make out any of its features, just like in the photo. I could only see the dark outline of the person’s body. The sun dipped fully behind the mountains. It was twilight.

All I could think about was my mom. I needed her to be safe. I asked myself where she could have even gone if she wasn’t in the house, but my mind was too consumed by fear to form an answer. The person hadn’t moved since I first laid my eyes on it. It hadn’t even twitched. I looked down at the photo once more, hoping there would be some clue within it pertaining to my mom. It was dark in the photo now, and both the person and the house were hard to make out. My mom was nowhere to be seen. I looked back at the figure. It wasn’t looking at me anymore. It seemed to be peering at the front porch of the house; it’s head tracking something. My heart sank. What if my mom was down there? I remember thinking to myself. I started to cry out of fear again. I was so scared that the figure was going to do something to my mom. I needed to do something. I took a step back from the window, still making sure the figure was just barely in my sight. I yelled for my mom. I didn’t hear a response. The figure shot its head back up to the attic window once again, diverting its attention to whatever was downstairs. It started to sprint. I ran to the window, trying to keep it in my vision. It was running into the house. I gasped, not knowing what to do. I heard the remnants of the front door slam open, followed by fast, heavy footsteps going up the stairs. It was coming to the attic. I was completely paralyzed at that moment. I just waited for it to come to me. Its crashing footsteps ran under me as it made its way towards the ladder. My body unfroze as I realized that I either needed to fight or hide. I decided to crouch down and hide behind an old chair that was covered with stacks of papers, hoping that it would shield me partially. I could hear the person speedily shimmying up the ladder. I closed my eyes, and streams of tears flowed down my face. I just wanted to be with my mom.

The person had finally reached the top of the ladder. Their footsteps didn’t slow down. I heard boxes fall and pieces of furniture crash to the ground as they ran towards where I was hiding. I shut my eyes, covered my mouth, and wept. The footsteps reached me, the thudding of their feet shaking the floor next to me. Then, they stopped. The person must have been only a few inches away from me at that moment. I remember thinking to myself that the only thing I wanted was to see my mom one last time. I hoped she was ok, and that the figure hadn’t hurt her. I opened my eyes and wiped my tears. “Why was the person waiting so long?” I thought to myself. I looked over toward where the footsteps had stopped, expecting to see the figure looming over me, but there was nothing. The person wasn’t there. I hadn’t heard them walk away or go down the ladder. I stood up and looked around. Nothing. The boxes and furniture that I had heard fall seemed to be back to their usual places, and there was nothing else different about the room. “What just happened?” I thought to myself. I looked at the photo, still in my hand, to see if I could spot the figure in it. The light of the moon now illuminated the house in the picture, but it was different now. It was no longer the well-kept house that I had seen before. Now it was the house that I was in, decrepit and rotting. There was no sign of the figure. Tears dropped from my eyes onto the photo. I didn’t know what was happening. My mind felt broken.

I suddenly heard my name. Someone was yelling my name from outside. I walked back to the attic window, my mind still shrouded in fear, hoping that it wasn’t the figure. When I peered through the window, I was blinded by the sun shining directly through the glass and into my eyes. “Is it morning already? No, it can’t be. The sun would be rising in the other direction.” I said softly, trying to calm myself down. I shaded my eyes with my hands and looked to see who had been calling my name. It was my mom. She looked concerned, yelling my name into the house periodically. I was so happy. I rushed back to the attic ladder and descended it. I scurried down the stairs and burst through the bent front door. “There you are! I was worried for a sec. Did you find anything in there?” My mom spoke, seemingly relieved at my presents. I burst into tears and hugged her. The fear that had encased me for so long left my heart. “Woah! Did something happen in there? Are you ok?” She said, stroking my hair as she embraced me. “Can we please leave.”, I said. My voice was shaking. “Oh, yeah of course honey.” I stopped hugging her, wiping the tears from my eyes. “What’s that in your hand?” She said. I looked down at the photo. It was tattered and bent and showed the house in black and white. There were people outside on the porch waving at the camera. The house was painted white and seemed to be in good condition. I showed her the photo, my face sinking into a frown. “I found it inside.”, I said. She took a look at it, then gave it back to me. “That’s cool. I wonder why it was in there.”, she said, concerned. “Let’s go.”, I said. We walked back to the car, taking the same path along the lake. I looked back at the house multiple times, but nothing changed, and there was no sign of the person. We reached the car and drove off.

I told my mom everything that happened on the way to the backpacking trail. She looked horrified and deeply concerned. She assured me that everything was going to be ok and that she wouldn’t leave my side for the remainder of the trip. I told her I just wanted to go home, but she thought that the hike and camping would give me some time to think and recover. She was right, it did help a little, but I was still paranoid for the rest of the trip. We set up camp that night and I cried myself to sleep, my mom doing everything in her power to help me feel safe. We came back home the next day. My mom didn’t leave my side for more than 10 minutes at a time for the next week. I started seeing a therapist that month. I haven’t gone backpacking, nor have I visited northern Montana since. I live in Oregon now, so I’m less afraid to travel and spend time in rural areas, but that isn’t to say I’m not scared of it happening again. I took the photograph home with, and it’s still somewhere in my parent’s house. I haven’t looked at it in years. I’m planning on going backpacking again this summer with my best friend. We’re going to a trail near Shelby, out in the mountains of northern Montana. I’m going to bring the photo, and we’re going to go back to that house, if it’s even still standing. I’m going to go inside, and put the photo back on that table, and leave. I’m tired of being so scared.


Photo by Nicklas : https://www.pexels.com/photo/white-and-brown-house-in-the-middle-of-a-farmland-12662268/