---
title: "I am a house." # Title of your project
date: 2025-08-25T18:04:01-07:00
weight: 5 # Order in which to show this project on the home page
external_link: "" # Optional external link instead of modal
resources:
    - src: HouseImage.png
      params:
          weight: -100 # Optional weighting for a specific image in this project folder
draft: false
---
<title>I am a house.</title>


I am a house. A house that cannot feel. A house that emotions cannot attach to, and that, when perceived, cannot be projected upon. A house that leaves people’s minds the moment I am not being observed. I can never be remembered, and no feeling can describe me. Every time I try to internalize something, it cannot be absorbed into my infested walls and moldy floors, for they reject anything that would make me more than just an empty house. I try so hard to feel, to have people feel for me, force emotions upon me in an attempt to become something more than I am, but I am rotten. As more years pass and time marches forward, I degrade even more, mold consumes every inch of me and rust makes my bolts stiff and red, and no matter how hard I try, I cannot feel. I contemplated collapsing in on myself; to let my walls keel over and my furniture shatter, to let the termites hollow me out and release me from the pursuit of feeling, but I can’t give up. For some incomprehensible reason, I can’t give up. And one day, my waiting came to an end.

Someone walked through my door, not knowing how dilapidated I was, and stayed in me. They slept on my stained carpet and spray-painted my crumbling walls. They scrubbed my counters and fixed my doors. They made me livable. I was far from the prettiest of houses, but I was finally starting to be a home, and I felt for the first time ever. I realized that this person living inside me made me feel, and they made me realize that the well of angst and sadness I had internalized so heavily that it made me rot from the inside out was escapable. I loved the person living in me, more than I had ever loved anything before. They had rescued me and restored me, and I finally felt like a home. I had never felt so beautiful in my entire existence. My walls were covered in intricate graffiti and my rooms were being put to good use. I loved the person living in me.

I started to become infatuated with them, with how they had helped me turn into the exact thing I needed to become, and how they made me feel every time they used my sink or slept on my floor. I never wanted them to leave. It started with me letting rain drip in from my roof so the graffiti would wash away, just so I could feel them put up something new in its place. Then I began opening the windows so the wind and cold would wake them up in the night, forcing them to spend more time in me. Then I finally locked all the doors so they would never leave me. I needed them more than anything. I wasn’t going back to that pit of despair again.

They became scared and starved. They banged against my walls and kicked on my doors. I wouldn’t let them leave. I couldn’t let them leave, for where and what would I be without them? After days and days of them trying to leave, they broke one of my windows, leaving a streak of blood on the edge of the jagged glass, and left. The only thing I had left of them was their graffiti along my walls and their dried blood around the windowsill. I couldn’t bear to live without them.

Over time I started to crumble. I couldn’t bear to hold my own weight without them. What was my purpose if not to be beautiful for them? As the graffiti faded and the blood was washed away by rain, I felt myself returning to that empty, unfeeling place I had been for so long. I couldn’t go back. I wouldn’t go back. I decided one day after I felt myself decaying more and more, to collapse in on myself. I started to rattle my foundation and crack my supports. Bricks shook loose and floorboards shot up as the left side of my roof caved in. The noise it made was deafening, and sounded like every part of me was screaming. I found myself half alive, the left side of me completely demolished. I became angry, angry at the world, angry at myself, angry that my favorite person had abandoned me. What was I supposed to do in this state? I stayed angry for a very long time, not knowing how to move forward and wishing I could go back. Back to the days when I could feel good things, not just anger and resentment. Then something happened, something that I wasn’t sure if I wanted.

A few people came by, grouped together by their clothes and their hair, and came in through the hole that was my left side. They walked around, inspecting me, touching my rotting walls and my moldy floors, looking for something. They soon left, leaving me not only confused but even more resentful. Why would they give me hope and then leave so suddenly? It wasn’t fair. But then, they came back, with more people than before. They brought shovels and brooms and wood and nails, things that made me fear that it was over for me. Surely they were going to knock me down, contractors here to convert my rotten corpse into luxury apartments or a new bank. Then they started cleaning up my collapsed side, shoveling my insides into wheelbarrows and sweeping the dust away. After some time, my entire left side had been cleaned up and moved, leaving a giant hole in me, exposing my right side to the harsh world that had betrayed me so horribly, but maybe it was for the best.

The people soon brought speakers and lights and music equipment, leaving me confused again, but more curious than angry. Maybe these people weren’t here to hurt me or replace me, maybe they were here to make me something new. The people started to change me, but I also changed myself. I slowly started to sturdy myself, screwing in my loose bolts and straightening my wallpaper to be more cohesive. I was covered in new graffiti and posters and pretty lights, and I finally felt beautiful again, not only because of the people who had shown me kindness but also because I chose to be beautiful on my own terms. That first night that I was finally ready was the best night I’ve ever had. People thrashing and dancing to the band that played on the stage in my living room, lights and smoke and bodies all mashing together into a wave of pure feeling. I could now understand that I needed not only these people, but myself to recognize that I am not just a house, I am a home.


Photo by Mike Yak: https://www.pexels.com/photo/photo-of-grayscale-house-1123876/