---
title: "Quercus Robur" # Title of your project
date: 2025-08-25T20:08:03-07:00
weight: 4 # Order in which to show this project on the home page
external_link: "" # Optional external link instead of modal
resources:
    - src: PlantWall.jpg
      params:
          weight: -100 # Optional weighting for a specific image in this project folder
draft: false
---
<title>Quercus Robur</title>

I awoke in a chair. A wooden chair, made from birch, with a table made from hickory in front of me. There was someone across from me, staring at me intently. I gazed around. I was in a coffee shop, but there was nothing but a small cedar counter on the other side of the store. The person across from me and I were sitting at the only table in the store. The walls were made out of cement, and they were covered in scratches. I believed I had been here before. The windows at the front of the store showed only pure white outside. I hated it. I drew my attention to the other person. I gazed at their face for a brief moment, and it seemed wrong. Their eyes were swapped, and their nose was different. Their skin was course, and I could sense the bugs under it, burrowing in and out of their flesh and forming tunnels. I hoped the bugs wouldn’t notice me. The person shot me a look suddenly. I couldn’t quite tell what they meant by it, so I was afraid that they were upset. “Your makeup looks off today”, they told me. I covered my face, embarrassed. “You don’t have to be rude about it, I tried my best”, I said. I lifted my hands away from my face. They were covered in blood, unsurprisingly. I had spent hours getting ready, making sure that everything was just the way I wanted, but my skills were limited. Why did they have to point that out? I took out my phone and used its camera to look at myself.

I was confused. It looked just how I wanted it to. I tapped the hole under my left eye. The bullet had gone clean through, and it was still bleeding, just how I had planned. I wanted to make sure it was perfect, so I used my pinky finger to feel inside. The flesh felt just right, burned at the entrance due to the gun’s mussel blast. My cheekbone had been shattered in all the right places, and it contoured the large exit wound at the back of my head, pieces of brain dripping blood and clinging onto the remnants of my skull. I looked at the person, now angry. “It’s perfect, I don’t know what you mean”, I said. “You could have done better with the caliber. Nine-millimeter makes you look too masculine”, they responded, condescendingly. I hated them for saying that. The white beyond the windows was becoming hard to ignore. I hated being here. Their bugs annoyed me, and our coffee was taking a while. “What did you make me come here for”, I said. “It wasn’t my decision”, the person said back. The waitress appeared next to us, holding a tray made from pine that balanced our cups of coffee on top. I had forgotten what I had ordered. I hoped it was good.

The waitress’s skin was made from a mixture of acacia and porcelain, and tunnels bored by termites formed intricate patterns on her face. She was beautiful, everything I wanted to be. I looked away from her as she placed our drinks on the table, trying to hide how self-conscious I was. I think she said, “Enjoy”, to us, but her wooden tongue and porcelain lips made sounds like that of an angel, holy yet hardly intelligible. I didn’t want to be here. I just wanted to finish my coffee and go back. “I bet you wish you were her”, the person chuckled, taking a long sip of their coffee. I didn’t respond. I picked up my cup and brought it to my lips, curious about what I had ordered. I took a small sip and immediately spit it back into the cup. I gazed into the cup, and saw chunks of teeth and bone in it, and the coffee itself was pure white. I hated it. “What? Not up to your standards? I thought you loved this place”, the person said. I shot them a glare and put the cup down. I think their bugs were starting to notice me. I was afraid, and just wanted to go back. 

The person and I sat in silence for a while as they sipped on their coffee. I didn’t bother to ask how it was; they had been rude enough to me already. I peered out the windows again. They still only showed white outside, and it made me feel sick. I had run out of blood at this point, so all my hard work preparing my face had gone to waste. “What do you think is going to happen after this?” the person said, cutting through the silence between us. “I’m not sure. Will I get to go back? I really want to”, I said. The person snickered and took another sip of their coffee. “Why would you get to? Do you think you deserve that?” I felt ashamed. I didn’t want this. Their bugs had noticed me. They were skittering under their skin faster than before. I nervously fidgeted with my cup. “I’m almost done with my drink”, the person said. “I can’t help you after that. It’s not for me to decide.” I was scared and confused. It wasn’t supposed to be like this.

The waitress came back and collected our cups with a bin made of mahogany. When she took my cup, I noticed that she had rivers of gold woven into her hands. “Thank you. You’re very pretty by the way.” I managed to spit out, still ashamed of my face. I think she said, “Thank you”, but again, it was hard to decern. The person scoffed at me. “You made your decision. Stop questioning it.” The person stood up and put a few coins on the table. “I tried, but they noticed”, they said. They left through the door at the front and walked into the white outside. I was alone now. I was glad the person was gone, but something made me feel like I had failed them. I looked towards the windows, but the white was too much to bear. I knew I couldn’t go out the way they did. I wasn’t allowed to. Not anymore. I stood up, put a few coins on the table, and looked to my right. There was a door that I hadn’t wanted to acknowledge until then. The sign on it read, “Exit”, in a font that felt like the opposite of the waitress’s voice. I felt the hole under my left eye again. It wasn’t perfect like before. It had dried up, and flies were circling the outside. I stuck my pinky finger inside and felt the maggots that had begun to occupy it. They chewed through the rotted flesh and bits of brain. I sighed. It wasn’t supposed to be like this. It was supposed to be perfect. 

I walked up to the door in the back, took a look around the coffee shop one last time, and opened it. I stepped into the black void beyond the door. I wished I could go back, but I had made my decision. It was supposed to be perfect.


Photo by Ekaterina Belinskaya: https://www.pexels.com/photo/trailing-plant-with-green-leaves-on-concrete-surface-4744816/