---
title: "Under the I-5 Outside Redding, California" # Title of your project
date: 2025-08-26T10:20:54-07:00
weight: 1 # Order in which to show this project on the home page
external_link: "" # Optional external link instead of modal
resources:
    - src: Road.png
      params:
          weight: -100 # Optional weighting for a specific image in this project folder
draft: false
---
<title>Under the I-5 Outside Redding, California</title>

Cars rushed by. The sun glared down at me, mocking me. I think it knew how much it irritated me, at least that’s what it felt like. I was under a tiny bridge that supported a small section of the I-5 in central California, just outside of Redding. I had been hitchhiking my way to San Diego to see a few friends. That was no longer my goal. The grasshoppers and crickets made long, droning chirps around me. I had never been this uncomfortable. It made me want to claw at my skin. Yet I couldn’t move, and I hadn’t been able to move for some time, ever since that car came out of nowhere and shoved me down into this miserable hole. The sun was burning itself into my vision. I wished more than anything that I could shut my eyes, but they wouldn’t budge. It made it worse that I could feel everything. I could feel my leg bending backwards under me, the bone poking out like a jagged knife. I could feel my shattered spine and how my ribs punctured my lungs. My intestines hung out of my abdomen. My brain was exposed to the elements. I couldn’t stop thinking about how frightening a sight I must be.

I had died a few hours ago. Surprisingly, death was less painful than what I was experiencing now. It felt like an odd mixture of being high and extremely tired at the same time, the pain being barely noticeable. Now, I felt everything. No buffer of fading consciousness, no adrenaline to offset the pain, just raw, unfiltered agony. I wondered if someone would find me soon. I wondered if the creatures of the desert would slowly tear me apart and disperse me throughout the land. I wondered if I would feel it all. The sun was unbearable. I tried to scream, but my jaw was broken and unresponsive. I felt nothing but anger. “What a stupid way to go out,” I thought to myself. Flies started to land on my spilled intestines. I wondered what the point of this was. It felt like divine punishment of some sort. For some reason, I hoped that it was, maybe that would mean it meant something. I thought about how I died, how pointless it felt. I hoped that whatever was happening to me now would balance out how senseless my death was. The desert bugs started to crawl on my skin. The sound of the cars rushing by made me even angrier. Not only was I probably killed by some drunk who was operating one, I also had to listen to people ignoring me, ignoring my suffering. I prayed that someone would find me. I didn’t know who I was praying to.

The sun finally set. It didn’t bring much relief. I was still in a ditch outside Redding under the I-5, listening to cars drive by while bugs wriggled under my skin and birds picked at my flesh and flies swarmed around me. But at least the sun wasn’t in my eyes anymore. I had a lot of time to think. The pain had started to fade into the background, like some undercurrent of suffering. I thought about what led me here. About why I didn’t have a car and had to hitchhike. About whether it was worth dying to see my friends down in San Diego. It wasn’t like I was planning on dying, though. I thought about how I had taken so many unnecessary risks, risks that led up to this moment. I hadn’t really cared about dying before; it felt like an afterthought to any dangerous action. I got angry thinking about that. If only I had known. I came to the realization that this probably wasn’t punishment sent to me by a god or gods or whatever may be out there. There was no purpose in this, just like how there was no purpose in the way that I had died. Things happen when they happen. There was no plan for my future and there was no plan for my death and there was no plan for anything afterward. I felt hopeless. I felt angry again. I hoped this wasn’t how things would be forever, but every second was proving otherwise. I tried to focus on the pain. Hopefully it will stop me from thinking.

It had been a week. My body was bloated and filled with pus and rotten blood and gas. It was so painful. The flies had laid maggots in my open abdomen and my eyes and my mouth. I could feel each tiny little thing wriggling inside me, burrowing and chewing and secreting and living. I was happy at their presents; it made the pain easier to focus on. In the brief moments where the pain would fade to the back of my mind, I would start thinking again. It was worse than any hell I had heard of. All my regrets and mistakes flooded into my brain. All my worry and stress and anger came out. I would try to take deep breaths, but my lungs were filled with bugs, and my throat had collapsed. Eventually the pain would spike, and it would be my focus once again. I had accepted it would be like this forever.

It had been a month. Most of my flesh had been eaten or decayed. I was just a skeleton with a few lumps of tissue on it. It felt nice. I was sad that the bugs had gone, but occasionally a vulture or a fox would come and gnaw on my bones. I felt tranquil. I couldn’t see anymore, but I knew that it was beautiful around me. I knew the sun still shined and the crickets and grasshoppers still chirped, and the cars still rushed by. I had accepted that this is how things were, and how things would be. It would never end, and I was happy. 


Photo by Pixabay: https://www.pexels.com/photo/gray-concrete-road-beside-brown-mountain-during-golden-hour-163848/